We thought that this might be
some kind of pushing between the empires,
but something else happened
—the worst-case scenario.
We were aware of the fact
that we had to prepare
for some serious changes.
There were thousands of people
at the border.
People had to wait in long queues
several kilometers long.
Almost every day,
we received 200 or more refugees
—our brothers and sisters
who were seeking refuge in Poland.
It was really touching,
since most of them had only one bag.
It was not possible to take more.
The brothers of the Coordinators’ Committee
of the Governing Body
were analyzing with us
about how to help and what we could do.
Immediately
the first Disaster Relief Committee
was set up,
and when we realized that there was
already a need in the whole of Poland,
16 committees started their work.
The number of DC-50 applications,
of those who wanted to volunteer,
increased every week by thousands,
indicating that the willingness
and readiness to help was huge.
We prepared everything in order to be able
to welcome the refugees
at the border crossings,
at the reception points set up
by the authorities on the Ukrainian border,
and at other locations
where the trains from Ukraine were arriving.
We knew we would have to ask
the congregations for accommodations.
At the beginning,
we prepared a survey
that helped us to organize everything.
We know that it’s thanks to Jehovah’s backing
because in just a few days,
we received more than 7,500 replies.
Four Assembly Halls and 22 Kingdom Halls
were temporarily converted
to refugee relief centers.
The brothers were traveling for days
and needed some basic things
—hygienic products, diapers for children,
and many other things—
not only clothes but many basic necessities.
They received food;
they could warm up,
take a shower,
and get some rest.
In addition to this, in many places,
volunteers prepared rooms
for donated garments
where brothers and sisters
could choose clothing.
In some places, brothers prepared
special areas for children
where there were toys, crayons,
something to draw on, something to play with
so that the children could feel busy there.
Doing something helped them
to get their minds off what they saw
when they were fleeing.
The children expressed their gratitude
in their pictures.
Almost everywhere they wrote: “Dziękuję.”
“Spasiba.”  (Thank you.)
They drew pictures of Paradise,
expressions of their hope.
It was so touching.
The circuit overseers
together with the elders
did something absolutely spectacular.
In the beginning,
some of these brothers
made hundreds of shepherding calls
in two or three weeks.
The goal was to deliver
40,000 humanitarian aid boxes.
We were responsible for purchasing food,
hygiene products, first-aid items,
medical supplies.
We had to find a logistical location
where we could store all of this.
Afterward,
we had to think about how to pack it,
how to deliver it to the border,
and then how to transport it to Ukraine,
where at this very moment the war continued.
It was very nice to observe the volunteers
who came to help us pack up the supplies.
When the brothers from all over the country
got to know about the need,
they were ready to drive
300 or more kilometers (185 miles)
for many hours
to devote a couple of hours to packing boxes.
As it turned out later on,
it was more or less 190 tons of supplies.
In each package,
we also put some drawings made by children.
There was an expression of love
in those humanitarian aid boxes.
Having this opportunity to help the brothers,
we saw an expression of Jehovah’s love
and might in all these efforts.
Only Jehovah could prepare his people
for such a well-organized
and effective activity.
Many of the brothers have commented
that the fact that they see
so much being done to help the brothers
in Ukraine right now
convinces them that if they are
in that situation in the future,
if there is some time when they need
that love or they need the help,
well, Jehovah’s organization
is going to be there to help them as well.
Belonging to Jehovah’s household
and being part of a worldwide family
is priceless.
The hatred in the world
continues to grow constantly,
and there’s just more conflict and disunity.
At the same time,
the unity and the love of Jehovah’s people
just keeps on increasing,
and it just becomes more and more powerful.